Briefly summarize the DriverPass project. Who was the client? What type of system did they want you to design?
The DriverPass project is a system that helps people that are trying to get their license on the first try. The client is Liam, the owner of DriverPass. He has noticed that many people fail their driver's test on the first time up due to not being ready and lack of knowledge. Liam would like to bridge that gap by providing a service that takes customers on the road and gives access to online lessons and practice tests with up-to-date information from the DMV directly. They want a browser-based system that can be accessed, but not updated, offline for scheduling appointments and taking the lessons provided.
What did you do particularly well?
I feel that I gathered the requirements that Liam and his IT officer, Ian, wanted in the system well. With the limit of questions that someone else asks, I was able to gain a foothold on what DriverPass wanted to be.
If you could choose one part of your work on these documents to revise, what would you pick? How would you improve it?
The part that I would revise if I could choose one would be the technical requirements. I feel that I would put more time into figuring out the exact technical requirements needed, both physical and software, instead of giving a summary. I would go deeper into detail. I would also describe in detail each choice I made, which I feel I did in these documents but with more in-depth technological information, more description is needed.
How did you interpret the user’s needs and implement them into your system design? Why is it so important to consider the user’s needs when designing?
I interpreted the user's needs by going through the interview transcript and every time someone suggested something that should be a part of the system or said they wanted it to be a part of the system, I wrote it down. Each requirement was in a list of additions to the overall system and then built into diagrams. It is important to consider the user's needs when designing because it is their product. You make it for them. They are the ones that are going to walk away with the product and continue life with it. You make it for them and move to the next one. Obviously, if there are problems that their IT department cannot figure out then you may have to revisit but this is their vision, and you are the sculptor. I do believe that it is important to be a realist and suggest things when their visions get out of hand or can't work, but they are paying you to make something the way they want it, so their design is paramount.
How do you approach designing software? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to analyze and design a system?
I approach it like an art project. Someone tells me what they want on the system. I try to envision it and create it based off their description. Thought provoking questions help me round out the vision that they have so that I am able to see it like they do. One of the techniques that I like to do is build the GUI in my headfirst, maybe sketch it out for the customer, and then work on the other aspects from there. The security and all the underlying aspects that most people won't see should be straight forward but what the customer sees will be what is represented by the client.
